Bureau of Transportation Statistics (BTS)
=========================================

See [Geospatial Open Data](https://geodata.bts.gov).


## Rail Network

[https://geodata.bts.gov/maps/north-american-rail-network-lines](https://geodata.bts.gov/maps/north-american-rail-network-lines)

North American Rail Network (NARN) can be used within the public, the federal 
government, rail industry, state DOTs, and academia for routing, mapping and 
analysis. The North American Rail Network (NARN) Rail Lines dataset was created 
in 2016 and was updated on October 12, 2023 from the Federal Railroad 
Administration (FRA) and is part of the US Department of Transportation 
(USDOT)/Bureau of Transportation Statistics (BTS) National Transportation Atlas 
Database (NTAD). The NARN Rail Lines dataset is a database that provides 
ownership, trackage rights, type, passenger, STRACNET, and geographic reference 
for North America's railway system at 1:24,000 or better within the United 
States. The data set covers all 50 States, the District of Columbia, Mexico, and 
Canada.


## Rail Network -- Class I

[https://geodata.bts.gov/datasets/usdot::north-american-rail-network-lines-class-i-freight-railroads-view](https://geodata.bts.gov/datasets/usdot::north-american-rail-network-lines-class-i-freight-railroads-view)

North American Rail Network (NARN) can be used within the public, the federal 
government, rail industry, state DOTs, and academia for routing, mapping and 
analysis. The North American Rail Network (NARN) Rail Lines: Class I Freight 
Railroads View dataset is from the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) and is 
part of the US Department of Transportation (USDOT)/Bureau of Transportation 
Statistics (BTS) National Transportation Atlas Database (NTAD). This dataset is 
a subset of the NARN Rail Lines dataset that show the ownership and trackage 
rights for all the Class I freight railroads: “Burlington Northern and Santa Fe 
(BNSF),” "Canadian National (CN) Railway," "Canadian Pacific (CP) Railway," 
"CSX Transportation," "Norfolk Southern (NS) Railway," "Kansas City Southern 
(KCS) Railway," and "Union Pacific (UP)". It is derived from the North American 
Rail Network (NARN) Lines dataset, and for more information please consult, 
https://doi.org/10.21949/1519415. The NARN Rail Lines dataset is a database that
provides ownership, trackage rights, type, passenger, STRACNET, and geographic 
reference for North America's railway system at 1:24,000 or better within the 
United States. The data set covers all 50 States, the District of Columbia, 
Mexico, and Canada.


## Marine Highways

[https://geodata.bts.gov/maps/marine-highways](https://geodata.bts.gov/maps/marine-highways)

This data provides users with information about the marine highway locations for
national and regional analysis applications. The Marine Highways dataset was 
created on June 15, 2016 and was updated on October 31, 2023 by the US 
Maritime Administration (MARAD) and is part of the US Department of 
Transportation (USDOT)/Bureau of Transportation Statistics (BTS) National 
Transportation Atlas Database (NTAD). MARAD's Marine Highway Program is a 
Maritime Administration led program to expand the use of our Nation's navigable 
waterways to relieve landside congestion, reduce air emissions, and generate 
other public benefits by increasing the efficiency of the surface transportation 
system. This dataset contains the locations of all 28 maritime routes that have 
been designated as Marine Highways by the Secretary of US DOT. Routes included 
in this dataset are diagrammatic and may not depict all waterways and port 
connectors that are considered to be part of the US Marine Highway System.

